6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Becca
Neil, what do the following animals have in common?
Zebras, giant pandas and magpies
That's pretty easy, Becca. They're all black and white
Right, but do you know why these animals are voltabee black and white?
I'm not so sure, probably something about survival.
That's usually the answer, isn't it?
It is. The animal world is full of colour, shiny blue peacocks and bright green frogs
But in fact, hundreds of animal species are black and white.
In this episode, we'll try to find out why, while also learning some useful new words and phrases
And remember, all the vocabulary from this episode is available on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
Ok, time for a question for you, Becca.
According to one theory, some animals are black and white to one potential predators
That they're dangerous, or they taste bad
But what is the scientific term for this?
Is it a camouflage, b, mimicry, or c, aposomatism?
Well, Neil, I'm going to go with c, just because I've never had a
heard of that word before.
Ok, I like a style.
Some scientists think zebra's distinctive black and white stripes prevent bites from flies
And other insects.
Zoologist Dr. Martin Howe tested this theory by covering horses, a close relative of the zebra
In stripes.
Here, Martin discusses his experiment with Caroline Steele, from BBC World Service program
CrowdScience.
Do we know what it is about the stripes that's putting them off?
Is it somehow visually confusing?
We originally set out to test whether maybe they're with these optical illusions at play.
So we did a whole bunch of tests where we tried different patterns of rugs
But it turned out that practically every high contrast pattern,
every black and white pattern we used,
or this every pattern was really effective at stopping flies.
Martin conducted a whole bunch of, meaning a lot of tests using different colours and patterns.
Black and white stripes created an optical illusion, a visual trick that makes your eyes see things
differently from how they really are.
As a result, the flies were put off.
They lost interest and didn't bite.
So zebra's stripes confuse insects, telling them to look elsewhere for food.
But are there other reasons animals are black and white?
Nobody who seen giant pandas in a zoo would find them hard to spot,
against a grassy background they stand out easily.
But seen from a distance in the snowy mountain forest where they live,
black and white makes the perfect disguise.
Here's Professor Tim Carrow, a world authority on animal behaviour,
explaining more to Caroline Steele for BBC World Services CrowdScience.
The giveaway for me was 15 photos of giant pandas
taken either fairly close up or at a distance.
And in two of those photos, I was unable to see anything in the picture
other than rocks and snow.
And then later on, I realised that in fact there was a giant pandar in the centre of that picture
some distance away.
The immediately that clicked in my mind.
The pandas were so well camouflaged.
Tim couldn't spot them in the photos.
That's when something clicked in his mind.
The phrase used when you suddenly understand something after trying for a long time.
Tim understood that pandas used colour to hide.
He calls this a giveaway.
Something that makes it easy for people to discover something secret or unknown.
So, our animals black and white to repel insects, like zebras,
or for camouflage, like pandas.
Let's give the final word to Hannah Rowland, a researcher
into another black and white animal.
Penguins.
Really, science never has a black and white answer.
Excuse the pun about the...
With penguins being black and white.
There's it's often a very complex mixture of reasons.
The answer to why animals are black and white is not black and white.
A situation described as black and white means one where it's easy to understand what's right and wrong.
In fact, there's no one reason why animals are black and white.
Zebras avoid bites, pandas hide from predators,
and some animals like scunks warn other animals they're dangerous.
It all depends on the specific animal.
And talking of scunks reminds me of my question, Becker.
According to one theory, some animals are black and white to warn potential predators
they're dangerous or taste bad, but what is the scientific term?
An eye-true-c, a possumatism, because I never heard of it before.
Well, that's a great way of choosing.
And it's done well for you because you're correct.
Woo!
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with optical illusion.
A visual trick where your eyes perceive things differently from how they really are.
A whole bunch of something means a lot of something.
If something puts you off, it causes you to dislike it or lose interest.
A giveaway is something that makes it easy for people to discover something secret or a gnome.
The phrase something clicked in my mind is used when you suddenly understand something at last.
And finally, if you describe something as black and white, you mean it's easy to understand what is right and wrong.
Once again, our six minutes are up, but head over to our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com, for a quiz and worksheet for this episode.
See you there soon, but for now it's goodbye.
Goodbye.